Alignment SD-JWT-VC and SD-JWT (#378)
italia/eidas-it-wallet-docs: docs/en/pid-eaa-data-model.rst

The PID/(Q)EAA data format and the mechanism through which a digital credential is issued to the Wallet Instance and presented to a Relying Party are described in the following sections. 

SD-JWT-VC Credential Format
===========================

The PID/(Q)EAA is issued in the form of a Digital Credential. The Digital Credential format is `SD-JWT`_ as specified in `SD-JWT-VC`_.

> An SD-JWT is a JWT that MUST be signed using the Issuer's private key. The SD-JWT MUST be provided along with a Type Metadata related to the issued Digital Credential according to Sections 6 and 6.3 of [`SD-JWT-VC`_]. The payload MUST contain the **_sd_alg** claim described in the Section 5.1.1 `SD-JWT`_ and other claims specified in this section, some of them may be selectively disclosable claims. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
SD-JWT MUST be signed using the Issuer's private key. SD-JWT MUST be provided along with a Type Metadata related to the issued Digital Credential according to Sections 6 and 6.3 of [`SD-JWT-VC`_]. The payload MUST contain the **_sd_alg** claim described in the Section 5.1.1 `SD-JWT`_ and other claims specified in this section. 
```

> The claim **_sd_alg** indicates the hash algorithm used by the Issuer to generate the digests as described in Section 5.1.1 of `SD-JWT`_. The **_sd_alg** claim MUST be set to one of the specified algorithms in Section :ref:`Cryptographic Algorithms <supported_algs>`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The claim **_sd_alg** indicates the hash algorithm used by the Issuer to generate the digests as described in Section 5.1.1 of `SD-JWT`_. **_sd_alg**  MUST be set to one of the specified algorithms in Section :ref:`Cryptographic Algorithms <supported_algs>`.
```

> Claims that are not selectively disclosable MUST be included in the SD-JWT in plaintext.  The digests of the disclosures (and decoy digests, if any) related to an object element claim that is selectively disclosable MUST be contained in a new JWT claim, **_sd** as specified in Section 5.2.4.1 of `SD-JWT`_. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Claims that are not selectively disclosable MUST be included in the SD-JWT as they are.  The digests of the disclosures, along with any decoy if present,  MUST be contained in the  **_sd** array, as specified in Section 5.2.4.1 of `SD-JWT`_. 
```

> Each digest value ensures the integrity of, and maps to, the respective Disclosure. Digest values are calculated using a hash function over the disclosures, each of which contains:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Each digest value, calculated using a hash function over the disclosures, verifies the integrity and corresponds to a specific Disclosure. Each disclosure includes:
```

  - a random salt, 
  - the claim name (only when the claim is an object element), 
  - the claim value. 

> In case of nested object in a SD-JWT payload each claim, on each level of the JSON, should be individually selectively disclosable or not. Therefore **_sd** claim containing digests MAY appear multiple times in the SD-JWT.

Reviewer: this is not really clear, multiple parameter with the same name cannot cohexist unless they are included in different levels

please clarify

> In case of nested object in a SD-JWT payload each claim, on each level of the JSON, should be individually selectively disclosable or not. Therefore **_sd** claim containing digests MAY appear multiple times in the SD-JWT.

Author: ```suggestion
In case of nested object in a SD-JWT payload each claim, on each level of the JSON, should be individually selectively disclosable or not. Therefore **_sd** claim containing digests MAY appear multiple times at different level in the SD-JWT.
```

For each claim that is an array element the digests of the respective disclosures and decoy digests are added to the array in the same position of the original claim values as specified in Section 5.2.4.2 of `SD-JWT`_.

In case of array elements, digest values are calculated using a hash function over the disclosures, containing:

  - a random salt, 
  - the array element

> In case of multiple array elements, the Issuer may wish to conceal presence of any statement while also	allowing the holder to reveal each of those	elements individually (Section 5.2.6 `SD-JWT`_). Both the entire array and the individuals entries could be selective disclosure.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In case of multiple array elements, the Issuer may wish to conceal presence of any statement while also allowing the Holder to reveal each of those elements individually (Section 5.2.6 `SD-JWT`_). Both the entire array and the individuals entries can be selective disclosure.
```

> The Disclosures are provided to the Holder together with the SD-JWT in the *Combined Format for Issuance* that MUST be an ordered series of base64url-encoded values, each separated from the next by a single tilde ('~') character as follows:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Disclosures are provided to the Holder together with the SD-JWT in the *Combined Format for Issuance* that is an ordered series of base64url-encoded values, each separated from the next by a single tilde ('~') character as follows:
```

      - [NSD].UNIX Timestamp with the expiry time of the JWT, coded as NumericDate as indicated in :rfc:`7519`.
      - `[RFC7519, Section 4.1.4] <https://www.iana.org/go/rfc7519>`_.
    * - **status**

>       - [NSD].it MUST be a valid JSON object containing the information on how to read the status of the Verifiable Credential. It MUST contain the JSON member *status_assertion* set to a JSON Object containing the *credential_hash_alg* claim indicating the Algorithm used for hashing the Digital Credential to which the Status Assertion is bound. It is RECOMMENDED to use *sha-256*. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      - [NSD]. It MUST be a valid JSON object containing the information on how to read the status of the Verifiable Credential. It MUST contain the JSON member *status_assertion* set to a JSON Object containing the *credential_hash_alg* claim indicating the Algorithm used for hashing the Digital Credential to which the Status Assertion is bound. It is RECOMMENDED to use *sha-256*. 
```

      - Section 3.2.2.2 `SD-JWT-VC`_ and Section 11 `OAUTH-STATUS-ASSERTION`_.
    * - **cnf**
      - [NSD].JSON object containing the proof-of-possession key materials. By including a **cnf** (confirmation) claim in a JWT, the issuer of the JWT declares that the Holder is in control of the private key related to the public one defined in the **cnf** parameter. The recipient MUST cryptographically verify that the Holder is in control of that key.
      - `[RFC7800, Section 3.1] <https://www.iana.org/go/rfc7800>`_ and Section 3.2.2.2 `SD-JWT-VC`_.
    * - **vct**

>       - [NSD].Credential type value MUST be an HTTPS URL String and MUST be set in accordance to the type obtained from the PID/(Q)EAA Issuer metadata. It serves as an identifier for the type of the SD-JWT VC and MUST be a Collision-Resistant Name as defined in Section 2 of :rfc:`7515`. It MUST contains also the number of version of the Credential type, for example, in the case of the PID, it is ``https://issuer.example.org/v1.0/personidentificationdata``.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      - [NSD]. Credential type value MUST be an HTTPS URL String and it MUST be set using one of the values obtained from the PID/(Q)EAA Issuer metadata. It is the identifier of the SD-JWT VC type and it MUST be set with a collision-resistant value as defined in Section 2 of :rfc:`7515`. It MUST contain also the number of version of the Credential type (for instance: ``https://issuer.example.org/v1.0/personidentificationdata``).
```

      - Section 3.2.2.2 `SD-JWT-VC`_.
    * - **vct#integrity**
      - [NSD].The value MUST be an "integrity metadata" string as defined in Section 3 of [`W3C-SRI`_]. *SHA-256*, *SHA-384* and *SHA-512* MUST be supported as cryptographic hash functions. *MD5* and *SHA-1* MUST NOT be used. This claim MUST be verified according to Section 3.3.5 of [`W3C-SRI`_].
      - Section 6.1 `SD-JWT-VC`_, [`W3C-SRI`_]
    * - **verification**
      - [NSD].Object containing user authentication information. It MUST contain the following sub-value:

          * ``auth_trust_framework``: String identifying the trust framework used for user digital authetication.
          * ``loa``: String identifying the level of identity assurance guarateed during the authentication process.
          * ``auth_method``: String identifying the digital identity system used for the authentication.

>       - This specification

Reviewer: which could be the values to be set with these parameters?

.. note::

>     Credential Type Metadata JSON Document MAY be retrieved directly from URL contained in the claim **vct** using the HTTP GET method or using the vctm header parameter if provided. Unlike specified in Section 6.3.1 of `SD-JWT-VC`_ the **.well-known** endpoint is not supported in the current implementation profile.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Credential Type Metadata JSON Document MAY be retrieved directly from the URL contained in the claim **vct**, using the HTTP GET method or using the vctm header parameter if provided. Unlike specified in Section 6.3.1 of `SD-JWT-VC`_ the **.well-known** endpoint is not included in the current implementation profile. Implementers may decide to use it for interoperability with other systems.
```

Digital Credential Metadata Type
--------------------------------

> The Type Metadata document MUST be a JSON object and contains the following parameters.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Metadata type document MUST be a JSON object and contains the following parameters.
```

.. list-table:: 
    :widths: 20 60 20
    :header-rows: 1

    * - **Claim**
      - **Description**
      - **Reference**
    * - **name**

>       - REQUIRED. A human-readable name of the Digital Credential type. In case of multiple language, the language tags are added to member name, delimited by a # character as defined in :rfc:`5646` (e.g. *name#it-IT*).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      - REQUIRED. Human-readable name of the Digital Credential type. In case of multiple language, the language tags are added to member name, delimited by a # character as defined in :rfc:`5646` (e.g. *name#it-IT*).
```
